Now extract to method.
You have this nested logic here,
what do we do?
Well, we just take this and
we extract it to a method.
Not only that is we can safely do this
without breaking the enclosing code.
Now I have not only do I have three
methods now, that I can test,
I have three methods I can reuse.
This is huge,
that what am I doing here now,
I'm managing state flow control and more
importantly is a managing code volume.
And here, I think we probably
can figure out what to do here.
When you're breaking the single
responsibility principle.
What do you do?
You just extract it to a method.
Now, let me make one statement
here that you're going to see or
one thing that mentally I
kind of add a hitch that,
what we have here is at the bottom,
we have four methods.
And they're very, very specific.
They take some input, and
they return something.
And so these have referential transparency
is that you're going to call them and
you're going to get the same
thing every single time.
The top two methods.
These are what I would call air traffic
control methods or sequencing methods.
And so if somebody said okay, well,
I see here that you're making two
assignment statements in this top method.
Are you doing two things?
Well, I would say at this top level,
is that it takes a course in a mode, and
it says the appropriate values.
And so all this is doing right here.
The top method, is just coordinating,
the delegation to these
lower level functions.
If you look at update courses all this
is doing is taking a parameters and
delegating to lower level functions.
It's not actually doing
anything other than saying,
what did you send me based
on this we need to do this.
And so now when you look at this,
the bottom four methods,
you can put something in and
you can test the output.
You can say, when I want to delete
a course, I can test this by I'm
gonna put a course in or a collection of
courses and the course I want to delete.
And then I expect that whatever is coming
back is going to be that collection
minus that course.
And so this is very easy to test.
So these bottom four methods,
inputs, outputs,
it's very easy to write assertions on
those for air traffic style methods,
what I test on these is that
it's delegating properly.
So for instance update course,
how I would test that is when
I pass in my parameters based on the mode
I would expect either create course,
update course or
delete course, to be called.
And so just a little commentary on,
I think there's kind of sometimes
some confusion that somebody could,
and you could test the output of
these air traffic controller methods.
But typically what I really care
about Is that Is it calling
the underlying methods correctly is
this method delegating properly.
And so now,
what this allows us to do is have
fine-grained code over
coarse-grained code.
And so you always want to move your
code Into a state of being fine grained.
And so we've taken this,
which I would say is very coarse-grained,
it's doing a lot of things.
And so when you even just mentally look
at this, you're already having to kind
of create these mental kind of containers
and say it does this or this or this.
And Then
instead we moved to this where we
now have fine-grain green code.
At the bottom we have four
functions that are very specific.
We know what they do.
They create a course, update, total costs,
update course, update courses and
this is a lot easier to not only test and
manage but
to make sense of, and
this is really, really important.
And so when we talk about complexity,
we're not only talking about code and
the technical cost.
But I wanna be very clear
that I'm talking about also
the human cost of writing complex code,
is that we have
better things to do than sit and
be miserable, slaving over or
languishing in a code base
that we can't make sense of.
Unfortunately, I admit that a lot of
those injuries are self inflicted,
because I'm trying to make sense of
a codebase that I myself created
three months ago or three days ago,
and I can't make sense of it.
And so, not only am I talking
about technical complexity,
but managing the the human cost for
addressing this
complexity is that when
you write code like this,
it's a lot easier to be successful,
be effective and
then move on to the things in your life.
That you like to do,
whether that's playing beach volleyball,
pistol whip on VR, eating birthday cake,
ice cream, whatever it is.
That's, I want you to do more of that and
less time fighting with complexity.
So with that said, what this looks like
in a very specific concrete example and
so, one of the questions was
around like complicated services.
Well, this is what you
want to move towards.
So this is a facade,
which is kind of an Angular mechanism.
But this applies to anything is
that you want your methods and
the logic in your code to be very,
very small.
And so I believe, if you read clean code,
Robert C Martin talks about 20
lines is kind of that threshold.
Honestly, I'm typically unless
I'm dealing with a very specific
piece of business logic that I try to
stay really within three to eight lines.
Like it's a really command command done
and you're constantly delegating or moving
this complexity, away from the point of
contact, which is the component layer.